Migration guide for predictive back (#8952)
flutter/website: src/release/breaking-changes/android-predictive-back.md

---
title: Android Predictive Back
description: >
  The ability to control back navigation at the time that a back gesture is
  received has been replaced with an ahead-of-time navigation API in order to
  support Android 14's Predictive Back feature.
---

## Summary

Flutter's just-in-time navigation APIs, like `WillPopScope` and
`Navigator.willPop`, are being replaced with a set of ahead-of-time APIs in
order to support Android 14's Predictive Back feature.

## Background

Android 14 introduced the
[Predictive Back feature](https://developer.android.com/guide/navigation/predictive-back-gesture),
which allows the user to peek behind the current route during a valid back

> gesture and decide whether or not to continue back or to cancel the gesture.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
gesture and decide whether to continue back or to cancel the gesture.
```

to cancel it, `onPopInvoked` is called after the pop is finished being handled.

Code before migration:

```dart
WillPopScope(
  onWillPop: () async {
    _myHandleOnPopMethod();
    return true;
  },
  child: ...
),
```

Code after migration:

```dart
PopScope(
  canPop: true,
  onPopInvoked (bool didPop) {
    _myHandleOnPopMethod();
  },
  child: ...
),
```

### Migrating from `WillPopScope` to `NavigatorPopHandler` for nested `Navigator`s
A very common use case of `WillPopScope` was to properly handle back gestures
when using nested `Navigator` widgets. It's possible to do this using `PopScope`
as well, but there is now a wrapper widget that makes this even easier:
`NavigatorPopHandler`.

Code before migration:

```dart
WillPopScope(
  onWillPop: () async => !(await _nestedNavigatorKey.currentState!.maybePop()),
  child: Navigator(
    key: _nestedNavigatorKey,
    …
  ),
)
```

Code after migration:

```dart
NavigatorPopHandler(
  onPop: () => _nestedNavigatorKey.currentState!.pop(),
  child: Navigator(
    key: _nestedNavigatorKey,
    …
  ),
)
```

### Migrating from `Form.onWillPop` to `Form.canPop` and `Form.onPopInvoked`

> `Form` used to use a `WillPopScope` under the hood and expose its `onWillPop`
> method. It has been replaced with a `PopScope` and has exposed its `canPop` and
> `onPopInvoked` methods. Migrating is identical to migrating from `WillPopScope`
> to `PopScope`, detailed above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Previously, `Form` used a `WillPopScope` instance under the hood
and exposed its `onWillPop` method. This has been replaced with a
`PopScope` that exposes its `canPop` and `onPopInvoked` methods.
Migrating is identical to migrating from `WillPopScope`
to `PopScope`, detailed above.
```

### Migrating from `Route.willPop` to `Route.popDisposition`
`Route`'s `willPop` method returned a `Future<RoutePopDisposition>` to
accommodate the fact that pops could be canceled.  Now that that's no longer
true, this logic has been simplified to a synchronous getter.

Code before migration:

```dart
if (await myRoute.willPop() == RoutePopDisposition.doNotPop) {
  ...
}
```

Code after migration:

```dart
if (myRoute.popDisposition == RoutePopDisposition.doNotPop) {
  ...
}
```

### Migrating from `ModalRoute.add/removeScopedWillPopCallback` to `ModalRoute.(un)registerPopInterface`
Internally, `ModalRoute` kept track of the existence of `WillPopScope`s in its
widget subtree by registering them with `addScopedWillPopCallback` and

> `removeScopedWillPopCallback`. Since `WillPopScope` has been replaced by
> `PopScope`, these methods have been replaced by `registerPopInterface` and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`removeScopedWillPopCallback`. Since `PopScope` replaces `WillPopScope`,
these methods have been replaced by `registerPopInterface` and
```
